****************************
Review 1
****************************

0: (borderline paper)

The paper proposes a formalization of a modeling paradigm in a theoretical
framework. The formalization is built incrementally from the concept of
templates (parametrized meta-models and transformation models), workflows (that
include transformations) and finally the modeling paradigm itself. The paper
introduces a case study example: a toy CAD domain.

The paper is intellectually interesting -- this reviewer is glad that finally
somebody wrote up these ideas, but the contribution is somewhat shallow. It may
be caused by the heavy emphasis on formalization, but it is not clear what the
actual, solid contribution is that allows further advancements in the field. Are
we to use this formalization to define modeling paradigms? Is it a template for
modeling paradigms? And the most important question (for MPM): how does this
formalization allow the composition of modeling paradigms (so that one represent
and/or discover interesting interactions among the various models)?


****************************
Review 2
****************************

2: (accept)

The paper represents a first step towards a formalisation of multi-paradigm
modelling. Authors motivate the approach in the Abstract, Introduction and
Motivation sections. Section Formalisation details a formal description of an
MPM. This proposition is illustrated by a simple case study CookieCAD.

- In my opinion, Section Motivation could be extended and considered as a
Bacground section.

'This suggest that a paradigm is a placeholder for describing the properties of
each of the dimensions described above: the formalisms, the abstraction levels,
and the processes that enable interactions between all the basic modelling
activities.'

- Could you clarify if there are other dimensions or other solutions that
consider differently the MPM approach.


Typos:
-page 2: 'This suggest' => This suggests
-page 5: 'Figures 5a' => Fig.5
-page 6: 'Fig. 5b' => Fig.5

****************************
Review 3
****************************

1: (weak accept)

This paper aim to build a formal specification of a modeling paradigm, presented
as a first step towards formalization of multi-paradigm modeling. In general, I
appreciate the ideas the authors presented. At the same time, I feel like some
of the ideas were presented in a rush, resulting in sections that are not easy
to follow.

Overall, the paper reads well until Definition 2 (page 3). From there until
Definition 7, it was hard to follow where the authors were going. Since a large
portion text is about a number of definitions, and formalization of these, the
story needs to be simplified for readability.

Technically, some of the content is very well written, as I said until page 3.
Portions of page 4 could be improved.

I like the CAD example -- I am left wishing providing adequate commentary on the
figures of the example as they help communicate the message you are providing.
For example, portion of Figure 3 about Money and Product are not adequately
explained. Figure 5 is explained very briefly and some portions are skipped.

I recommend to shorten the definition section, still to main concepts of
paradigm and gain more space for illustrating them.


The CAD example, as authors state is very basic, and one does not come out
thinking how the idea of formalization of paradigm was illustrated through
example. For instance, the model in figure 3 is quite trivial, so what do I gain
by formalizing the paradigm in this case?

The related work section in its current form can be removed, you can cite paper
15 and 16 at other places in the paper.

Overall, I really like the proposals but I am left wanting more info and
exemplification. I rate this paper a weak accept.

Please do a spell check, e.g. 'plane' is mentioned as 'plan' at multiple places
on page 5.